{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf600
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 \
tracks\
\

\fs40 2233 tracks from Spotify
\fs24 \
\

\b\fs28 Description
\b0\fs24 \
\
A dataset containing 2233 tracks, selected from Spotify\'92s \'93Best of 2019,\'94  \'93Best of 2020,\'93 and \'93Best of 2010s\'93 playlists. Approximately 200 tracks are selected from each of 11 genres: pop, rock, dance, Latin, Afropop, R&B, hip hop, folk, gospel, indie, and country.\
\
More detailed descriptions of variables can be found here: https://developer.spotify.com/documentation/web-api/reference/tracks/get-audio-features/\
\

\b\fs30 Usage
\b0\fs24 \
\
tracks\
\

\b\fs28 Format
\b0\fs24 \
\
A data frame with 2233 observations of 14 variables:\
\
artist.name\
\
	name of artist\
\
track.name\
\
	name of track\
\
popularity\
\
	The popularity of the track. The value will be between 0 and 100, with 100 being the most popular.\
\
genre\
\
	genre of the track, based on the playlist it is retrieved from\
\
danceability\
	\
	Danceability describes how suitable a track is for dancing based on a combination of musical elements including tempo, rhythm stability, beat strength, and overall regularity. A value of 0.0 is least danceable and 1.0 is most danceable. \
\
energy\
\
	Energy is a measure from 0.0 to 1.0 and represents a perceptual measure of intensity and activity. Typically, energetic tracks feel fast, loud, and noisy. \
\
key\
\
	The estimated overall key of the track, dummy coded, with 0 being the key of C, 1 being the key of C-sharp, 11 being the key of B, etc.\
\
loudness\
\
	The overall loudness of a track in decibels (dB). \
\
speechiness\
\
	Speechiness detects the presence of spoken words in a track. The more exclusively speech-like the recording (e.g. talk show, audio book, poetry), the closer to 1.0 the attribute value. \
\
acousticness\
\
	A confidence measure from 0.0 to 1.0 of whether the track is acoustic. 1.0 represents high confidence the track is acoustic.\
\
instrumentalness\
\
	Predicts whether a track contains no vocals. \'93Ooh\'94 and \'93aah\'94 sounds are treated as instrumental in this context. Rap or spoken word tracks are clearly \'93vocal\'94. The closer the instrumentalness value is to 1.0, the greater likelihood the track contains no vocal content.\
\
liveness\
\
	Detects the presence of an audience in the recording. Higher liveness values represent an increased probability that the track was performed live. A value above 0.8 provides strong likelihood that the track is live. \
\
valence\
\
	A measure from 0.0 to 1.0 describing the musical positiveness conveyed by a track. Tracks with high valence sound more positive (e.g. happy, cheerful, euphoric), while tracks with low valence sound more negative (e.g. sad, depressed, angry). \
\
tempo\
\
	The overall estimated tempo of a track in beats per minute (BPM).\
\
}